From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists. Scott
Hanselman posted by Carl Franklin. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
one 16 recorded live Thursday,
June 5th, 2008. Support for Hanselman it's
just provided by. Tellerik already
controls the most comprehensive suite
of components for windows forms
and asp.net web applications. online@wwwdottelerik.com
and by the code better
blog network, delivering tried and
true solutions to real world
problems for building better software
online@covid.com. Support is also provided
by dot developers journal the
world's leading.net developer magazine online
at www dot  dot
com. In this episode from
tech ed Scott talks with
anneal Nori and Murali Krishna
Prisaad from Microsoft velocity team
about distributed caching. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman, and this
is another episode of Hansel
minutes. I'm recording live from
the floor of tech ed
2008 here in Orlando, Florida.
I'm lucky enough to sit
down with the Neil Norrie
and Murali Krishna Prisaad from
SQL server group. Working on
velocity. Velocity is a new
product that was announced here
at tech ed 2008. And
you know, what is, what
is velocity? Oh, well lastly
is they distributed cash? It's
primarily the goal is to
really provide high performance scale
and availability for applications. So
this is a high performance
cash that I can, I'm
gonna put my objects into
this cash. What am I
going to put into this
cash? You can put any
kind of object in cash.
For example, could put a
CLR object or XML document
or some blob or anything.
The key thing is that,
you know, it's no pun
intended, but you know, it
needs to be identified by
a key. So as long
as you actually have an
identifier, then you can identify
it and then we can
pull the data. So This
is a giant distributed hash
table. That's right. So this
is a giant distributed cash.
And the kind of the
only requirement that we have
is that the object VC
replaceable, so that we can
store it across the machines.
So you an ethic, we
take a bunch of machines.
We use the memory on
all the machines and provide
you the illusion of a
single unified cache. So this
sounds like the asp.net out
of process, session, state service.
It's similar to that, except
that the fact that we
can actually scale better by
adding new machines and your
application, do you not to
be partitioned in any way
we can do all that
stuff for you? Okay. So
when I'm doing an asp.net
application, which I think is
one of the more common
kinds of applications that would
use a technology like this,
I in the past would
use either out of prox
session, state or SQL based
session state That is correct
out of processing state really
just is one service. It's
a window service that runs
on one machine and there's
no way to cluster it
or, or spread it out.
That is correct. So in
fact, one of the shortcomings
off the out of state
proxy is the fact that
it runs on a single
machine. If the machine goes
down, you lose your services,
right? And you would have
to manually partition it if
you need it to. Whereas
with this distributed caching technology,
you get actually two benefits.
First of all, we provide
an automatic session state provider.
So if you just change
your ASP configuration to point
to us, we didn't take
care of putting your sessions
into the distributed cache and
scaling your session state completely,
and also making it fail
safe. So one of the
reasons people put things in
SQL server is because they
don't want to lose their
state. Right? And with the
distributed cache, you get the
in memory kind of performance
of it, as well as
the failure, a failure of
fail-safe things that sequel server
provides, right? Because everyone wants
to use the out of
proxy, sequel server stuff. But
we always say, I don't
want the performance hit. Yeah.
Not only the performance, even
with SQL server, the fact
that, you know, as soon
as you have a lot
of concurrent users really hitting
the asp.net application, so then,
you know, you have actually
the scale and then you
know, that those kinds of
problems and the other problem
is that in case if
SQL server happens to go
down, then you have actual
availability issues. So I have
seen actually a lot of
customers using SQL server with
service broker and then, you
know, pushing those things to
go to the other SQL
servers. So they are sort
of building some kind of
a distributed SQL server pro.
Yeah. It's very difficult. When
I was working in banking,
we were building, we don't
think about availability. We scale
them out or fail over.
It was, we ended up
building a little mini product
to do distributed caching. And
that's not the business that
we're in, we're in banking.
Yep. Yeah, absolutely. And I
think we are looking at
actually latencies, which are almost
like, you know, probably an
order of magnitude better than
actually what you can hit
SQL server, because we are
looking at two to three
millisecond latencies, as opposed to
like 20 millisecond access that
typically, you know, you get
it in our database systems.
Wow. That's the other big
benefit that you get with
all the asp.net applications can
leverage that benefits. So one
thing, one other thing to
add is it's not limited
to just the session stage.
We can also, we have
the caching API, so we
can use that to actually
cash any of your ASP
data as well. So this
is very similar to if
people are familiar with the
system web caching or the
enterprise caching block, our APS
are very similar to that.
So your application can kind
of use our APIs and
you can now scale your
apps as well, that way.
So what does this look
like? Exactly. Let's say I've
already got an existing web
server. Let's say that I've
got 10 web servers in
a farm and I'm using
in-process session right now. And
I use the system dot
web dot caching. And because
I'm using in process session,
let's say that I've set
up, what's called node affinity.
So I'm trying to force
people to stay on a
particular note. And one of
the things that happens with
node affinity when web services
that you end up having
a pile up where you've
got too many people on
a certain note, that is
correct. That's a scale problem.
And I'm now reaching the
point where I'm going to
need more servers, even though
they're not all working effectively.
That is correct. What do
I install to make velocity
speed up that scenario? In
fact, precisely the distributed caching,
the elastic and help you
in this scenario. Okay? Because
the moment you put the
caching tier in behind for
storing your session data, you
don't have to have sticky
routing or node affinity to
your web servers anymore. You
can actually hit any of
the SP nodes and they
can sense because it's a
distributed cache. All the astronauts
nodes can see that session
data. So you can, you
can scale your sessions that
way. And all you have
to do is first install
velocity, obviously in the caching
tier. And then you just
have to change the configuration
and ASP session state provided
to point to velocity and
give a pioneer to one
of the nodes in velocity
so that we can talk
to the cluster. That's all
it needs to be done.
No, you should change here.
Do I need more machines
or can I put them
on the web service as
well? You can put them
on the same tier. The
only requirement is obviously you
need to make sure that
you have enough memory on
the machines, a little bit
computing part. We don't use
a lot of CPU, but
we need some computing power
and the network. You've got
to make sure that we
have enough network capacity available
in your network card. I
actually think that conceptually there
is going to be a
caching tier emerging, you know,
in the multi-tiered stack. Yeah.
Yeah. I think that in
the, in the memcache D
space and the open source
space, people who use things
like memcache D scale-out software
a lot she's off the
serious caching definitely requires machines
dedicated to doing just that.
To me, actually, caching tier
can be physical or logical,
really, you know, in the
sense that if it is
logical, then you would actually
mix it with your, you
know, web servers. You don't
need to really have separate
physical boxes that we can
actually support the configuration are.
You could actually have a
physical tier, which actually dedicated
boxes with lots of memory.
And, you know, you can
put actually caches in that
caching tier that you specify,
depending on, you know, how
high end your application is.
You may choose one or
the other, Right? Every application
scales a little differently. Some
applications may be putting a
great deal of small objects
into a cash while others
may put large objects one
or two. Yeah, I think
with that is other, there
is other kinds of data
let's say not session state,
but you know, more Merida,
only kinds of data, Right?
Data that might be shared,
not on a session basis,
but information like mortgage rates
that's being shared throughout the
application. Well, those kinds of
configurations, we also actually allow
you to have an embedded
configuration where you can actually
have the cash sit in
your app, domain And process.
And since that doesn't change
that often, we don't need
to really synchronize that much,
you know, between these applications.
So you can, you're saying
that you can tell velocity
that this information is not
necessarily needed to be updated
to the real time like
a session state might need
to be. Yeah, you can
configure, You know, we have
a notion of a named
Cassius where you specify the
name for the cache and
then in a bunch of
nodes, you know, that actually
participate in that Interesting. That's
a very common scenario is
system dot web dot cashing,
except I have to go
and fetch the data, offer
each of my 10 nodes
if I have 10 web
servers and they all have
a little in-process cash that's
right. I do still have
to retrieve it 10 times.
Yeah. You hear here, we're
here. Basically. What happens is
that as soon as you
say this named cash spread
across, you know, these five
web servers and you will
say it's a replicated cash.
So as soon as you
put one page in one
of these, we would automatically
propagate it actually onto the,
all the other, in a
web server processes. Your application
can read it as if
it's local cash tomb. So
that way you get actually
nice read scale. This brings
us kind of nicely into
the types of caches we
support. Okay. So we really
have two main configurations of
the caches. One is called
the partition cache. Okay. And
what that means is that
if you take a bunch
of machines and you give
us a bunch of key
value pairs, we will distribute
it across the machine set
across the cluster. Okay. So
what that gives you is
the ability to kind of
scale up on your data
volume and your reader and
your requests as well across
the machines. So if you
have one gig memory on
10 machines, you get effectively
10 gigs to cash, right?
The other option that another
was just explaining the replicated
cash model, where if you
have a lot of requests
for small amount of data,
you want to copy the
data over to all the
machines so that you can
get faster access to them.
So those are the two
main kind of cash types
that we have. And there
is another option in the
partition cash is if you
have a cash tier separately
from your client, if you're
frequently accessing some objects, you
don't want to take the
head of the network overhead
and the desalinization serialization. So
we also have the notion
of a local cash that
you can keep in your
client. It's like the LBNL
to Cassius that we have
in processing. So that you
had said before, about, about
the idea of either a
logical or a physical caching
tier in my experience with
distributed caching products and third
party products, I've had to
set up multiple network cards.
So for example, if I
was going to put the
cash on the same web
server, that's serving pages, one
network card is external and
is serving the pages outside.
Do you know to the
reverse proxy and on, and
the second network cards, basically
a separate back plane. This
is put together only for
the purpose of the caching
to chat between themselves. I
certainly wouldn't want my, my
replication of the cash to
be happening on the same.
Sub-net that's being served to
the outside world. Is that,
is that correct? Yeah, that
is kind of correct, but
it also depends on the
cash configuration, right? If you
have a replicated cash, yes.
There's going to be a
lot of data transfer because
any change to one of
the caches is going to
get for effect the other
caches. Okay. But it also
comes with, are you going
to change your data very
frequently or not? The way
we have set up our
caches is that we don't,
we are not that very
chatty the, if the caches
are not, if they're not,
not much updates happening, the
Cassius don't necessarily talk between
themselves other than to make
that our life. Right. If
you have replicated, if you
have a lot of rights
happening to the cash, or
if you have replication, a
lot of, if you have
the replicated cash setup, then
yes, you would probably need
a separate Metro card if
your website, if it's right
once or right. Occasionally read
often the network traffic is
not that cheap network. Traffic
is not that chatty. That
is great. And certainly if
I'm writing to a cash,
a great deal, I might
want to ask myself when
it begins to thrash, do
I really need a cash
or do I need another
precisely? Precisely. Yeah. Okay. So
what exactly is this? You
had said I could store
this in process in a,
in an abdomen. So there's
some DLLs that get loaded
and there's a namespace that
I can refer to. Yeah,
that's correct. So it's basically,
we, we view, we view
velocity to be hostable in
many hosting environment is without
net is one example. It
could be IAS, you know,
so you're not really running
asp.net. For example, you know,
you may be running a
PHP application and then, you
know, you may want to
really have a PHP application
in accessing that It's really
any application that can talk
to the CLR. So I
could use iron, Ruby and
Ruby on iron Ruby on
rails and talk to things.
It's just a dotted line,
My component for velocity. Okay.
And so you, all you
really need is there is
a client component that you
would actually include it actually
as part of your app.
And there is a run
time component in the case
of embittered case, you know,
the runtime is also running
as part of your process
in case of cash service,
the runtime actually is running.
This is very modular. This
is something I can run
server and client together, or
I can move them away.
Yeah. I mean, in fact,
the architecture, you know, if
you have time, you can
go into more details that
we have time, my friends.
So, so is even internally,
you know, all the distributed
components is highly modular. For
example, we actually see that,
you know, there could be,
you know, low latency networks
and then there could be
just vanilla, you know, our
TCP IP and on my
internet, you know, internal local
networks. So we can actually
layer our availability framework, availability
platform on top of, you
know, different kinds of underlying,
you know, transport protocols. So
we have done it. We
have architected in a fashion
that we can plug in
all different kinds of transport.
Let me add to that.
Actually, that's a very good
point that it's bringing up.
So we have a separate
transport layer, which abstracts, or
as he said, TCP, IP
InfiniBand, or any other kind
of transport. And the availability
itself is also isolated from
the transport itself so that
we can actually lay it
on any kind of clustering
technology that we have. And
Andy about that also are
other parts of the architecture,
including our data manager, the
object management itself is modularized
so that you can plug
in different. Like if you
want transactions, you can have
a transactional kind of object
management blood van. Right, right.
Now it's an in memory
object manager, you can have
different kinds of object managers
like then to give you
different functionality. So you don't
take the code head off
like one big gigantic monolith
code block that does every
possible thing. Right? You think
that the way that you
guys are running, this is
representative of kind of a
new openness at Microsoft because
I'm hearing things like modular
extensible, And I've personally been
in meetings where you guys
have been meeting with like
the asp.net team and the
S team. You're not necessarily,
I mean, I just think
this is cool because you're
not building this in a
vacuum and then coming out
with it, you're making sure
that it works with SQL
server. It works with IAS,
or should they just peanut
net. Do you feel that
there's a culture change? That's
enabling you guys to do
this, or is this just
what made sense to you
when you started the project?
I think there is some
sense of culture change that
I see part of it
is because, you know, for
me in my personally, you
know, I came to Microsoft
five years ago and I
worked in the industry, you
know, doing different kinds of
technologies. And I worked with
different kinds of customers. You
know, you hear different customer
point pain pinpoint. So I
view things, you know, from
their perspective. So you still
remember what it was like
on the outside? No, I
actually worked in a database
building database systems. Then I
went and built apps. Then
I realized how painful, you
know, using database systems were.
And then you'll end up
actually building some of this
caching kind of infrastructures. Now
I have an opportunity to
go and build it in
a fashion that applications can
actually use them in a
more painless fashion. And also
I'm a big believer that,
you know, there's lots of
heterogeneity of where is the
exist and then we need
to go and then actually
embrace that rather than walk
away from that. Very cool.
And one of the things
that I wanted to talk
about, we mentioned about the
modularity. So it's not in,
we won, but most we
won. We are really planning
to put a much richer
data manager in the cash
so that you can link
queries directly Link over distributed
object, Link over distributed objects.
Well, you heard it here
first. That's cool. Yeah. And,
and, and the, the way,
the reason is that, you
know, it's very natural already.
We are seeing people are
saying, yeah, I can do
this key based access. What
can I actually do the
inner tag based access? Can
I actually order those things?
So the people are really
already asking little bit or,
you know, little bit by
little bit, but in a
richer database functionalities. So query
is a natural thing that
we want to support it.
And as soon as you
really say, I want to
support query, guess what? The
objects are actually scattered across
multiple boxes and you don't
even know where they are.
So we have to really
run distributed federated queries. And
we have other projects that
we're working on, really building
very lightweight, modular storage engines,
as well as in a
query engine. So we want
to integrate those things with
velocity. Okay. We're just going
to take one second and
thank our sponsors. We're going
to come back and hear
a little bit more about
velocity. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman with a word from
our sponsor. Do you know
how to build web 2.0
Ajax applications with web 1.0
components? You really can't. If
you want to do the
next generation web applications you'll
need next generation components. Just
like the ones that our
friends at Telerik have got
their rad controls for ESPN
and Ajax. It's a huge
pack of web controls built
on top of asp.net. Ajax.
That'll add previously impossible performance
interactivity to your next project.
The new controls mirror, the
Ajax API from asp.net. So
development is really straightforward. The
client scripts are shared. So
loading time is not a
problem. If you just set
a couple of properties and
you'll be able to automatically
bind a web services for
a really efficient operation, the
new rad editor from ESPN
Ajax, Telerik loads up to
four times faster than before.
And the new rad grid
handles thousands of records and
just milliseconds, but as always,
it's best to try for
yourself. So you can visit
dot com slash ASP,
net Ajax, and download a
trial. Thanks a lot. This
week's Hansel minutes is brought
to you by code better.com.
The code better.com blog network
it's made up of over
20 industry leaders and speakers
who were passionate about delivering
tried and true solutions to
real world problems for building
better software. These guys are
not only our sponsor this
week, but they're also my
friends, the code better blog
network. It's where industry leaders
blog. You can find them
at. COVID better.com as well
as devilish dev L I
C I O dot U
S. So we're back talking
about velocity and MK. You
wanted to add something. Yeah.
So one more thing to
add when we talked about
the model reality is that
the whole velocity clustering technology
is actually built, and we
share it with the SQL
server, the data services technology,
you may have heard about
it, which is the SQL
server in the cloud and
this DS that's right. And
that can host pretty much
thousands of machines and run
at that time. That's my
next question, because it's easy
to say that you can
do caching on one machine
or 10, but then he
started talking about orders of
magnitude and things get a
lot more Interesting. Right? So
that's where in fact, the
interesting thing was that we
partnered with them early on
to make sure that we
don't build yet another thing.
And then we kind of
reuse the stack and it
has helped us in many
ways that we've been able
to sort of bring it,
bring the SSDs kind of
technology as an enterprise product.
And we now have the
clustering technology that can help
us scale now, thousands of
machines. So how has SSDs
stretched? You guys maybe a
little farther than you thought?
Was there anything, when you,
when you started using, when
they started using you, I
assume that they broke you
at some point and you
must've. Right. So there are
interesting things, right? SSTs is
a service. So you don't
need to build all the,
kind of the fancy tools.
So you don't need the
fancy administration API because you
can write both scripts so
you can write other scripts
to manage them. And the
second thing is when you
build it out to large
scale, you can make some
assumptions like, Hey, I'll have
a master cluster. That's running
somewhere, right. Just separate from
my rest of the data
cluster. But if you have
to scale it down to
like three machines, you can't
say I'm going to have
a separate master cluster. That's
kind of controlling these three
machines. So those were some
of the interesting challenges that
we kind of brought about.
And it was a very
good kind of interaction where
they were able to scale
down their technology and we
were able to kind of
scale up our technology. So
it kind of worked both
ways. Yeah. Interesting. And do
you have a sense of
when, how big it can
get? I mean, I sure
there's, you've done the math
at some point, you figured
out how the things scales.
Is there a limit To
how big something like this
could get a w and
what would the, what would
the first bottleneck be if
you started going thousands, tens
of thousands, hundreds of thousands
with the bottleneck be at
the network, you know, or,
you know, what, where would
you stop? Yeah, actually one
of the current bottlenecks, for
example, that we know about
is some of the routing
routing infrastructure, because we have
routing tables in the client
and that's something we working
on to make it much
more kind of flexible and
scalable. Because once you get
into $10,000, you don't want
your clients to be hitting
10,000. You don't have to
have whatever you're going to
have gigantic routing table three
81, that, so those are
some technologies that perfect. That's
exactly what happened to us
at my, at my last
job we worked in, in
banking. We, we, we had,
we moved our routing from
a centralized route, which was
a single point of failure
to client side route. And
then every client had to
keep track of all the
nodes that were a member
of this thing. And then
suddenly, you know, you get
into a hundred of those
and right, right, exactly. It's
a lot more complicated. So
we have some interesting technologies
to kind of have all
the slices of the routing
table being updated and also
some sort of complaint based
updates and all that sort
of, but you don't flood
the back into just say,
Oh, give me the routing.
Dave will give me kind
of all that stuff. That's
one thing we're looking at.
And the other interesting things
also come in the geo
distribution. Those are some things
we were working on to
say, Hey, if you want
to have multiple caches spread
across, if you have 10,000
nodes, presumably they are across
the cluster across the country.
So how well to kind
of coordinate those caches now
when you're building something like
this and designing it, or
you're doing it in a
protocol nonspecific way, because as
you're starting to describe these
things, I'm thinking to myself,
well, they could use DNS
or they could use, you
know, there's different TCP specific
things that one could use
that have solved some of
these problems with like a
routing table, but then you
wouldn't be able to plug
in different things underneath. Yeah.
We were definitely, you know,
doing it in a protocol
agnostic fashion so that we
do want to really plug
into different mechanisms and know,
for example, that it's not
quite relevant, but sort of
relevant is how do you
really bring in a data
into actually the cash itself?
You know, so we are
looking at different kinds of
really synchronization techniques. We working
with the, our sister project
in the group, which are
looking at Microsoft sync technologies.
They're, they're doing synchronization across
a variety of protocols and
then transport technologies. So we
will be leveraging those guys.
So I only worked at
Microsoft for what is it
now, eight months. And it's
so big. And there's so
many different projects. I feel
like if I spun up
my own project, that inevitably
someone would be doing the
exact same thing. Now you're
in the SQL server, your
SQL server group, they call
it data services, data platform.
How do you make sure
that someone's not thinking of
the same ideas in some
other group or in Microsoft
research somewhere? So Microsoft is
a large company. So obviously
you're going to have multiple
people or multiple groups building
similar technology and distributed caching
is not new. There are
multiple projects that are going
on, which everybody does. So
one of the things that
are trying to do is
to start to work with
the different groups, understand the
pain points and see how
well our technology can kind
of fit in the stack.
For example, if you've talked
to MSN life, they have
disagreed cash technology. We are
trying to see msn.com and
of.com and live.com and others.
And we are trying to
see how well our cash
can fit there and what
can we help them out
with? Like, if you give
better administration tools, for example,
and things like that. And
also, as we said, better
integration with the rest of
the stack, like asp.net and
get better with them. So
it kind of makes it
natural for people to start
using this cash. So you'd
like this to be built
in at some point, this
should be part of the
whole base class leverage be
system dot velocity or something.
Yeah, probably I think we
would like it to be
no more if we could
list it used everywhere. And,
you know, just to really
extend the point that MKS
had talking to MSN very
early on in the project,
there are not only just
MSN. We went and talked
to, we talked to the
research guys, we just talked
to connect the systems division.
We talked to developer division
because I see all of
these guys as the consumers
of a cash. And we
actually discussed quite a bit
about, you know, is this
an in memory database? That,
is it the cash, You
have a memory database. Right.
I remember that about 10
years ago, there was a
complex team at a thing
called IMD and it didn't
quite work out very well.
Yeah. So, and in fact,
people used to call velocity
as an eye MDB, and
then people used to get
confused about it saying that,
you know, why are you
guys doing this? You know,
we did it 10 years
ago, but the reality is
that the whole industry, and
then the technology, the community
has moved on, you know,
10 years ago, IMDBs were
done for different reasons, then
why I want to do
things in memory now. So
it is an in memory
database, you know, eventually velocity
will be in marrow database,
but it's very different kind
of in memory database. It
is not there to just
accelerate SQL server. It is
there to speed up your
applications. Yeah. I think that's
a really interesting point because
if you look at the
Facebooks and the Twitters and
the big giant places that
are struggling to scale, they
are using, you know, memory
Cassius to make it happen.
I mean, a memory Cassius
becoming an almost required thing.
If you're going to take
something to, to internet scale.
Absolutely. And even, even from
a technology perspective, we are
looking at not only Ram
in overtime, if I have
actually flash, can I back
this up with flash because
flash slash Ram also that
will give you like, you
know, 64 gig, 128 gigs
of actually NV Ram. And
it will smoothly, you know,
go from actually memory to
flash rather than hitting. Oh,
so like you were saying
L one and L two
cash, you'd add an L
three cash and you'd bake
you'd make ready boost for
velocity. Absolutely. And so these
are some of the projects
that we are concurrently working
on. So to me, these
are technologies that are used
everywhere and people expect them
over time. Yeah. Big teams.
When I, I mean, I've,
I've talked to you guys
over the last month or
two about velocity I've only
ever seen you guys. I've
only ever seen you two,
is it just you guys?
Well, we actually do, this
is another interesting thing that
we do, you know, it's
a distributed development. So we
have like three or four
people here. We have like
about 15 people in India.
And so we partner with
other teams elsewhere. So it's
a completely distributed development, you
know, I'm a big believer
in this talent everywhere. Let's
go tap into those people.
And it's a small groups.
The total is about 20
or 2020 people. That's not
very big. Yeah. More and
more. I've been seeing Microsoft
embrace what Amazon used to
call the two pizza team.
If you can feed the
team with two pizzas and
that's the right size, anything
bigger than that. And it's
too complicated. It's interesting. I
think that people think that
a Microsoft comes out with
a product, they have a
hundred minions that descend on
the thing and we have
a lot fewer people than
you think. Yeah. But one
interesting thing to add is
we get a lot of
support, like the cost part
of the data platform, we
get same marketing support. There's
a separate team or product
development support. Yeah, exactly. So
those are kind of the
supporting technology, which help a
lot. Right. So your individual
team doesn't have to be
that big. So you guys
announced to velocity of tech,
Edwin, can we see previews?
And when can we start
playing with this? Well, we
have a CTP available right
now. Okay. So we can
download this right now and
start playing with it. Yes.
And we would love to
really get more feedback and
you know, this is the
right time for us to
really shape, you know, velocity,
the based on the feedback
that we get back. And
then we plan to do
another CTP for PDC, which
is in October and then
probably no, get it out
by sometime early next year.
Again, this is another thing
that I want to really
do is ship frequently so
that, you know, we get
more feedback and this is
what we want to really
preserve the compatibility, of course,
so that you don't have
to really throw away our
applications whenever we share. So
you anticipate someone should be
able to download the CTP,
take their existing application and
in an hour or so,
start using velocity and seeing
if it makes a difference,
We actually already announced it.
People are already started doing
it. People have already put,
you know, blog posts. And
then they said, Oh, I
downloaded it. You know, I
ran it and people are
already using it, which is
very gratifying. Where do you
want the feedback to go?
The velocity blog? Yeah. So
if you go to msdn.microsoft.com/data,
we have the last two
links there so that our
blogs and forum posts there,
it'd be great if you
can post requirements and what
you find issues. And I
assume you're watching the blogs
to make sure if anyone
blogs about philosophy, whether their
success or failure, then they'll
watch that as well. Yes.
And in fact, we have
these email alerts where if
you don't answer a question
in the forum within 10
minutes, 15 minutes, you keep
getting emails. So definitely this
place to ask your question,
then you'll be looking at
those yourselves. Absolutely, absolutely. And
testing. And some, some things
to add is like the
CDP one itself right now
we have a cash service
model where you have, and
the partitioned cash as the
cash type and CDP two,
we're looking at availability and
other, some of the new
functionality is there. I assume
at some point you'll put
a up on your blog
To give an idea of
the schedule that Anil was
talking about licensing towns and
other things. Very cool. Well,
thanks so much for taking
the time to sit down
with me here today and
I'll be sure to check
out philosophy. Thank you, Scott.
Thanks God. All right. This
has been another episode of
Hansel minutes. We'll see you
again next week.